README.md, before:

## BGA_short
Bacterial genome assembly pipeline for Short reads.

## Description
1. Trim reads with Fastp.
2. Assemble trimmed reads with SKESA or SPAdes.
3. Perform assemble QC with Qualimap and QUAST.

## Installation
You'll need conda (I like [minconda](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html)) to create a virtual environment to manage all the dependencies. Refer to the [bioconda](https://bioconda.github.io/) for instructions on how to set your channels if not already done. I also like to use `mamba` ([here](https://mamba.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html)) instead of `conda` as it's much faster and better are solving multiple dependencies.
```commandline
# Create conda enironment
conda create -n BGA_short falco=1.2.1 skesa=2.4 spades=3.15.5 bbmap=39.01 fastp=0.23.3 samtools=1.17 minimap2=2.26 \
    psutil=5.9.5 qualimap=2.2.2d quast=5.2.0 bandage=0.8.1

# Activate environment
conda activate BGA_short

# Clone repository
cd ~/prog
git clone https://github.com/duceppemo/BGA_short

# Test BGA_short
cd BGA_short
python bga_sort.py -h
```

## USAGE
```commandline
usage: python bga_short.py [-h] -i /path/to/short_reads [--ion-torrent] -o /path/to/output_folder/ [-a {skesa,spades}]
                           [-t 16] [-p 2] [-m 57] [-v]

Bacterial Genome assembly for short reads.

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -i /path/to/short_reads, --input /path/to/short_reads
                        Folder that contains the sort read files in fastq format. Gzipped or not. Single-end or paired-end.
                        Samples will be named according to everything before the first underscore ("_"). Mandatory
  --ion-torrent         Use this flag if fastq files are from Ion Torrent. Needed for SPAdes. Optional
  -o /path/to/output_folder/, --output /path/to/output_folder/
                        Folder to hold the result files. Mandatory.
  -a {skesa,spades}, --assembler {skesa,spades}
                        Assembly method. Default "skesa". Optional.
  -t 16, --threads 16   Number of threads. Default is maximum available(16). Optional.
  -p 2, --parallel 2    Number of samples to process in parallel. Keep low if your computer has low memory. Default is 2.
                        Optional.
  -m 57, --memory 57    Memory in GB. Default is 85% of total memory (57)
  -v, --version         show program's version number and exit
```

# Example
Assemble paired-end short reads, 3 samples in parallel, using spades:
```commandline
python bga_short.py \
    -i /home/marco/analyses/short_ass_test/fastq \
    -o /home/marco/analyses/short_ass_test/out_sapdes \
    -p 3 \
    -a spades
```
Assemble Ion Torrent single-end short reads, 2 samples in parallel, using 16 cores and 50GB of memory, with skesa:
```commandline
python bga_short.py \
    -i /home/marco/analyses/short_ass_test/fastq \
    -o /home/marco/analyses/short_ass_test/out_sapdes \
    -t 16 \
    -m 50 \
    -p 2 \
    -a skesa
```

Commit message:

gfa_connector binary - `gfa_connector` binary was added as well as the LICENSE file from NCBI. Added code to find the binary during runtime. - README.md was updated accordingly.

README.md, after:

## BGA_short
Bacterial genome assembly pipeline for short reads. Works with Illumina single-end or paired-end data. Also supports Ion Torrent sequencing data.

## Description
1. Perform raw read QC wiht FastQC.
2. Trim reads with Fastp.
3. Assemble trimmed reads with SKESA or SPAdes.
4. Perform assemble QC with Qualimap and QUAST. Also produce images of the assembly graphs.

`gfa_connector` developed by NCBI (https://github.com/ncbi/SKESA) is being used to produce the assembly graphs for the SKESA assemblies. Since it's currently not available through conda, the binary is provided as is. It was compiled using Ubuntu 20.04. 

## Installation
You'll need conda (I like [minconda](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html)) to create a virtual environment to manage all the dependencies. Refer to the [bioconda](https://bioconda.github.io/) for instructions on how to set your channels if not already done. I also like to use `mamba` ([here](https://mamba.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html)) instead of `conda` as it's much faster and better at solving multiple dependencies.
```bash
# Create conda enironment
conda create -n BGA_short falco=1.2.1 skesa=2.4 spades=3.15.5 bbmap=39.01 fastp=0.23.3 samtools=1.17 minimap2=2.26 \
    psutil=5.9.5 qualimap=2.2.2d quast=5.2.0 bandage=0.8.1

# Activate environment
conda activate BGA_short

# Clone repository
cd ~/prog
git clone https://github.com/duceppemo/BGA_short

# Test BGA_short
cd BGA_short
python bga_sort.py -h
```

## USAGE
```
usage: python bga_short.py [-h] -i /path/to/short_reads [--ion-torrent] -o /path/to/output_folder/ [-a {skesa,spades}]
                           [-t 16] [-p 2] [-m 57] [-v]

Bacterial Genome assembly for short reads.

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -i /path/to/short_reads, --input /path/to/short_reads
                        Folder that contains the sort read files in fastq format. Gzipped or not. Single-end or paired-end.
                        Samples will be named according to everything before the first underscore ("_"). Mandatory
  --ion-torrent         Use this flag if fastq files are from Ion Torrent. Needed for SPAdes. Optional
  -o /path/to/output_folder/, --output /path/to/output_folder/
                        Folder to hold the result files. Mandatory.
  -a {skesa,spades}, --assembler {skesa,spades}
                        Assembly method. Default "skesa". Optional.
  -t 16, --threads 16   Number of threads. Default is maximum available(16). Optional.
  -p 2, --parallel 2    Number of samples to process in parallel. Keep low if your computer has low memory. Default is 2.
                        Optional.
  -m 57, --memory 57    Memory in GB. Default is 85% of total memory (57)
  -v, --version         show program's version number and exit
```

# Example
Assemble paired-end short reads, 3 samples in parallel, using spades:
```bash
python bga_short.py \
    -i /home/marco/analyses/short_ass_test/fastq \
    -o /home/marco/analyses/short_ass_test/out_sapdes \
    -p 3 \
    -a spades
```
Assemble Ion Torrent single-end short reads, 2 samples in parallel, using 16 cores and 50GB of memory, with skesa:
```bash
python bga_short.py \
    -i /home/marco/analyses/short_ass_test/fastq \
    -o /home/marco/analyses/short_ass_test/out_sapdes \
    -t 16 \
    -m 50 \
    -p 2 \
    -a skesa
```
